Drum Synthesizer Component

Implemented by: Joshua Folks

Functions:

The Drum Synthesizer is composed of many functions, when added together, create various sounds that are sampled from a real life drum. The synthesizer works by loading 20 different drum samples at the very beginning of the program. The tutorial that was given in class was very helpful to complete this component. The files are then saved in a wavetable and played from the wave player class. The wave’s are then loaded back from the Drum Factory. When playing the samples of the drum, they are enveloped, from Drum Envelope, in order to avoid the pop/click at the end of each sample. For the pitch, I made the sample much faster based on the user input. 

The Drum Synthesizer is able to create its own synthetic drum sound that correlates to a specific drum sound. The pitch is set by the user and this initiates the synthetic sound. The synthetic drum sound is made by starting with a base sine wave as a note, adding random waves as "white noise" to this sine wave, creating a sweeping effect that increases the frequency of the sine wave at the beginning of the wave and decreases the frequency at end, and finally, putting this wave through an envelope that adds Attack and Release processing to the sine wave.

Supporting the waveform playback, envelope generation, polyphony, and 21 different drum sounds including the synthesized drum, the Drum Synthesizer Component is complete with every requirement implemented.


Drum Synthesizer Score Format:

< note measure="1" beat=“1.0” note=“C1” pitch =“2” />

This is the simple format that is used to write the score of the drum. The initial note will come after the instrument is declared as “Drum”. The measure, beat, and note are all very basic parameters for the score file. The pitch parameter is an optional value that you can set to vary the pitch of the particular sound. When the pitch is set on the score file the actual synthesized drum is built and played at the varied pitch that the user has chosen. The notes of the drum synthesizer are correlated with the actual sound of a drum that is being loaded in. 

	Cymbal = C ex. C1 = cymbal1
	Bass = B   ex. B1 = bass1
	Tom1 = A   ex. A1 = tom11
	Tom2 = D   ex. D1 = tom21
	Snare = S  ex. S1 = snare1

All of the notes are in the solution folder and are saved as a .wav file. 
