Organ Synthesizer
By: Jacob Hersha

I was able to create every affect for the Organ instrument. 

The hardest part was the Leslie speaker since it's a complicated instrument. 
At first I tried to just create one class to implement all aspects of the organ.
This was difficult and it was very hard to understand how I would change some Leslie effects.  
Noting this, I followed the tutorial that came with the project.  Creating an envelope class
like the OddSines class was very straightforward, as a lot of this was also
done in Step 5.  

After following the tutorial and creating an instrument, instrument factory,
and wave class all that was left to do was figure out equations and
algorithms for my instrument.  The tutorial made changing attributes
and passing sound very easy.  I would say the easiest aspect was the envelope
generation and the drawbar attributes. The drawbar was simple math that was
just created using the decibel equation. The amplitudes of the drawbars
would then be applied to the harmonics for the note. 

Much of the work was done in the wave class.  Vibrato was fairly straightforward.
All I did was generate a sine wave that was made by the vibrato phase difference that
was caused by the magntiude of the vibrato for a note.

For the Leslie effets, quite a bit amount of thought had to be put in. I conquered
creating these effects by simply making an attribute for every effect of the speaker.
I had to make "if" statements that would affect the phase of the Leslie. These
statements would be determined by using the time of the program and seeing
where the attack or release points of the Leslie were.  The phase would
then be put into a sample frame that would replace the original frames.  This sample
frame will have the new amplitude from the drawbar with the new phase that has 
the vibrato and Leslie effects included.

In my envelope class, I just used "if" statements to calculate attack, release, and decay
equations.  These equations just take into effect the entered attack, decay, or release
numbers and adjust the gain then the frame is assigned that gain.



